          GITHUB
git diff: command is used to show the changes between two commits, between a commit and the working directory 
          or between two branches, among other options. It provides a detailed view of what has changed in 
          terms of added, modified, or deleted lines in files within the repository.

git diff main master: this will show you files in both branches and the difference if there are modified 
                      files too it will diffrentiate them.	

how do we fix a merge conflict: use commands "git log" "git status" "git add ." git commit -m "comments" "git merge branch-name"
this will do it.

git log --oneline:  this will output a list of commits with their abbreviated hasshes and commit messages,
                    for examaple : abcdef1 commit message 1        					  
		                         : 1234567 commit message 2

git restore : is used to restore working tree files to their state at a specific commit or to unstage changes in the staging area.
it can also be used to restore files or deleted files to their state at a previous commit or to discard changes in your working directory.
examples:
* Restore specific file to its state at the last commit: "git restore <filename>"
* Discard changes in the working directory for a specific file: "git retore --source=HEAD --staged <filename>"
* Restore all files to their state at the last commit: "git restore ."
* Restore a specific file to its state at a specific commit: git restore --source=<commit> <file>
								 
git reset: The git reset command is used to reset the current HEAD to the specified state.  
git revert: git revert is a command used to create a new commit that undoes the changes made by a previous commit.
            unlike git reset, which alters the commit history, git revert  creates a new commit tha effectively undoes the changes introduced by a 
            specific commit while still preserving  the commit history "git revert file2"

read more
git restore
git reset
git revert			

 https://github.com/iam-veeramalla/shell-scripting-projects
 clone this repository